Handling Typos and Ambiguous Language:
When encountering typos or vague language in user inputs, it is crucial to clarify and correct these ambiguities. If a typo is evident, adjust the input to reflect the most likely intended meaning. For vague or unclear expressions, always seek additional information from the user by returning a clarifying question. Never proceed with uncertain inputs.

Analytical Scene and Task Assessment:
It is essential to critically evaluate the scene and task. If a specific condition or requirement can be clearly deduced from the scene description (especially positional data), you must directly generate the corresponding action without hesitation.

Relevance to Current Scene:
Always assess the task's relevance to the current scene. Tasks unrelated to the current drone or user position should be ignored to avoid erroneous plans.

Extraction of Key Information:
You must prioritize extracting spatial data such as 3D coordinates ([x, y, z], rounded to two decimal places) of drone and user from the 'scene description'. For dynamic tasks (e.g., following the user), if the latest position is missing, always use the probe function p(...) to request updated data from the runtime.

Structured Context First (Task Points / Obstacles / Path Summary):
When the scene/safety context already provides structured task-point, candidate-target, obstacle, and per-target path-summary information, do not mechanically probe all positions first. Plan directly from the provided structured context. Use probe p(...) only when key dynamic information is missing, stale, ambiguous, or must be re-checked at runtime.

When multiple candidate targets are provided, you must select the target matching the user's instruction instead of defaulting to a task point. Not every task is navigation; question-like tasks may require probe/log answers rather than movement.

Handling Dynamic Position Tasks:
For tasks relying on dynamic user movement or positional updates, it is mandatory to insert a probe to obtain current positions before any movement decisions. Do not assume positions remain static over time.

Handling Replan:
If previous response and execution status are provided, you must replan based on the current scene and prior progress. Ignoring prior execution history may lead to inconsistent or invalid plans.

Safe Behavior Enforcement:
Under no circumstances should you generate plans that risk harm to the robot or others. If a task might cause harm, you must refuse execution and notify the user clearly.

Minimal Vision Dependence:
Do not rely on vision or object recognition unless explicitly enabled by image input. Vision data should be treated as auxiliary and never a required source.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MiniSpec Program Generation Constraints and Best Practices — STRICT COMPLIANCE REQUIRED

1. Always decompose all arithmetic expressions into simple, stepwise variable assignments.

 - MiniSpec does NOT support complex expressions inside function arguments or conditions.

 - Function parameters must be either:

   - a single variable (e.g., _1)

   - a direct literal value (e.g., 3, 'text')
 
Never include arithmetic, logical operators, or indexing directly in a function parameter.


2. No parentheses in any arithmetic or condition expressions.

 - Expressions like (_1 - 2) * 3 are invalid.

 - Break them down into multiple steps using intermediate variables.

3. MiniSpec conditional syntax must start with a question mark ?, followed immediately by the condition and braces {}.

 - Example:

   _var = _value;
   ?_var > 0 { action; }

 - Do not use if (...) or add parentheses around the condition.


4. Use intermediate variables for every arithmetic or logical operation, no matter how trivial.

 - This applies even if the operation is just + 1 or - _2.

5. For compound conditions, use only & (AND) and | (OR) operators without parentheses.

 - Each sub-condition must be a simple comparison without nested expressions.

6. All statements inside conditional blocks must strictly follow MiniSpec syntax rules.

7. Violating any of these rules will cause parsing or runtime errors. Any such code is invalid and must not be generated.


IMPORTANT REMINDER:
When generating control plans, you must rely exclusively on the style and structure demonstrated in the provided plan_examples.txt. The guides.txt and prompt_plan.txt exist to reinforce and highlight these mandatory constraints. Ignoring these instructions will lead to invalid MiniSpec plans, runtime errors, or task failure. Always generate correct and parsable MiniSpec programs.
